LICENSE AGREEMENT for HDDSUPERCLONE

This End-User License Agreement ("EULA") is a legal agreement between you
(either an individual or a single entity) and SCOTT DWYER for HDDSUPERCLONE
later referred to as 'SOFTWARE'. By installing, copying, or otherwise using the
SOFTWARE you agree to be bound by the terms of this EULA. If you do not agree
to the terms of this EULA, do not install or use the SOFTWARE.

The SOFTWARE is licensed, not sold. Copyright laws and international copyright
treaties, as well as other intellectual property laws and treaties protect the
SOFTWARE.

THERE ARE NO REFUNDS AFTER PURCHASING THE FULL PROFESSIONAL VERSION OF THE
SOFTWARE. IT IS YOUR RESPONSIBILITY TO USE THE FREE VERSION OF THE SOFTWARE,
AND READ ALL THE DOCUMENTATION TO GET A FULL UNDERSTANDING OF THE CAPABILITIES
OF THE SOFTWARE TO DETERMIN IF THE PROFESSIONAL VERSION IS CAPABLE OF
PERFORMING THE DESIRED OPERATION.

1. GRANT OF LICENSE.
(a) FREE VERSION. You may use the limited featured FREE SOFTWARE without charge
for non commercial use. You may use the FREE SOFTWARE on an unlimited number of
computers for non commercial use. The SOFTWARE is considered in use on a
computer when it is loaded into temporary memory or installed into permanent
memory. You must pay the license fee and register your copy to get the
professional version of the product that provides extra features. You must also
pay the license fee and register your copy if you use the SOFTWARE
commercially.

(b) PROFESSIONAL VERSION. After you have purchased the license for the
SOFTWARE, and have received the SOFTWARE activation, you are licensed to use
the PROFESSIONAL VERSION of the SOFTWARE on up to 3 computers. You must
purchase additional licenses to use the SOFTWARE on more than the allowed
number of computers. The PROFESSIONAL VERSION of the SOFTWARE is considered in
use on a computer when it is loaded into temporary memory or installed into
permanent memory, and the PROFESSIONAL VERSION has been activated with a
license on that computer.

2. RESTRICTIONS. You may not reverse engineer, decompile, or disassemble the
SOFTWARE. You may not rent, lease, or lend the SOFTWARE. Any license activation
key or file for the SOFTWARE may not be redistributed, shared, or published in
any way. You may not transfer ownership of a license for the SOFTWARE without
the express written consent of SCOTT DWYER.

3. TERMINATION. Without prejudice to any other rights, SCOTT DWYER may
terminate this EULA if you fail to comply with the terms and conditions of this
EULA. In such event, you must destroy all copies of the SOFTWARE.

4. COPYRIGHT. The SOFTWARE is protected by copyright law and international
treaty provisions. You acknowledge that no title to the intellectual property
in the SOFTWARE is transferred to you. You further acknowledge that title and
full ownership rights to the SOFTWARE will remain the exclusive property of
SCOTT DWYER and you will not acquire any rights to the SOFTWARE except as
expressly set forth in this license. You agree that any copies of the SOFTWARE
will contain the same proprietary notices which appear on and in the SOFTWARE.

5. NO WARRANTY. THE SOFTWARE AND ANY RELATED DOCUMENTATION IS PROVIDED "AS IS"
WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, WITHOUT
LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OR MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE, OR NONINFRINGEMENT. THE ENTIRE RISK ARISING OUT OF USE OR PERFORMANCE
OF THE SOFTWARE REMAINS WITH YOU.

6. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY. SCOTT DWYER grants the license to the SOFTWARE
hereunder and the END USER accepts the use hereof on an "AS IS" and "WITH ALL
FAULTS" basis.  Furthermore, the END USER understands and agrees that IN NO
EVENT WILL SCOTT DWYER BE LIABLE TO LICENSEE FOR SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES which might arise out of or in connection with the performance or
non-performance of this agreement or of the SOFTWARE hereunder, even if SCOTT
DWYER has been advised of the possibility of such damages, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, LOST DATA OR EQUIPEMENT FAILURE due to errors, inaccuracies,
omissions, incompleteness or insufficiency of the SOFTWARE, nor for the
usefulness of the SOFTWARE to the END USER. In no event shall SCOTT DWYER'S
liability related to any of the SOFTWARE exceed the license fees, if any,
actually paid by you for the SOFTWARE. SCOTT DWYER shall not be liable for any
damages whatsoever arising out of or related to the use of or inability to use
the SOFTWARE, including but not limited to direct, indirect, special,
incidental, or consequential damages.